README.md, before:

![Multi Device Image](https://github.com/Dhracko/bakers_cake/blob/master/static/readme_docs/multi_device.png)

# Bakers Cake

---
My Milestone 4 project 'Bakers Cake' has been built using all my knowledge gained from the Code Institute Academy, Full Stack Developer Course, from start to finish.

Bakers Cake is a fully responsive, custom-built full-stack website, designed and built with the users wants and needs first, whilst maintaining a high design standard and ease of use.

You can view the live website here. [Bakers Cake](#)

# Table of Content

1. [Aim of the site](#Aim)
2. [UX](#UX)
3. [Users Stories](#Users)
4. [Design Choices](#Design)
    * [Fonts](#Fonts)
    * [Colours](#Colours)
5. [Wireframes](#Wireframes) 
6. [Features](#Features)
7. [Future Goals](#Future)
8. [Technology Used](#Technology)
9. [Testing](#Testing)
	* [Issues and resolutions](#Issues)
10. [Deployment](#Deployment)
11. [Credits](#Credits)
    * [Content](#Content)
12. [Acknowledgements](#Acknowledgements)
13. [Disclaimer](#Disclaimer)

---

## 1. Aim of the site <a name="Aim"></a>

The Client has a small business where they bake cakes for local clients and now, they are ready to take it a step further and
expand the business to an online retail system where they can sell the cake to online customers anywhere within the UK and Channel Islands.

All the cakes are homemade and bake to order only using natural high quality ingredients with no artificial preservatives.

There is a repertoire of cakes and cake samples from previous orders for the users choose from and get ideas for their needs and a form where the users
can contact the shop owner to request a specific cake.

Due to the nature of the cakes baked fresh, the client will only dispatch to the UK and Channel Islands. All the cakes will be sent on a priority 
shipping, next day delivery.

---
## 2. UX <a name="UX"></a>

As the company is a small local based and the existing client base is small.
The main aim is to expand the company with shoppers and users with the following criteria:

1. Based within the UK & Channel Islands.
2. Are looking for home bake style cakes.
3. They want a choice of which type of cake is made of.
4. Likes to leave feedback from their experience and cake purchase.

To help this business to stand out from other online, the website needs to ensure that:
* Is easy to use and navigate
* Don't overload the user with too many 'walls of text'.
* Reminds the user to leave feedback from their product purchase to help other users.
* Is easy to track down the previous orders purchased.
* A rating system for users to rate cakes.
* Reviews left by other users who purchase the cakes before.

---
## 3. User Stories <a name="Users"></a>

User Stories were created using a spreadsheet for easier tracking on development and better description.

The Users Stories can be found [here](https://github.com/Dhracko/bakers_cake/blob/master/static/readme_docs/user_stories.pdf)

---

## 4. Design Choices <a name="Design"></a>

### Fonts <a name="Fonts"></a>

* [Dancing Script](https://fonts.google.com/specimen/Dancing+Script) To git the titles and headers a friendly informal and spontaneous look.

* [Montserrat](https://fonts.google.com/specimen/Montserrat) For a lighter and better reading on longer texts.

### Colours <a name="Colours"></a>

* 


---

## 5. Wireframes Mockups: <a name="Wireframes"></a>
Mockups of the website was made using [Balsamiq Wireframe](https://balsamiq.com/) to see how it would look for the different platforms like on large screens such as desktops and 
 on small screens such as a mobile phone:

* [Desktop](https://github.com/Dhracko/bakers_cake/blob/master/static/readme_docs/desktop.png)

* [Tablet](https://github.com/Dhracko/bakers_cake/blob/master/static/readme_docs/tablet.png)

* [Mobile](https://github.com/Dhracko/bakers_cake/blob/master/static/readme_docs/mobile.png)
 
---

---

## 6. Features <a name="Features"></a>

**Navigation Bar:** 

**Sign up/Register & Sign In**
This is found under the My Account menu item where users can log in to their account or register for the site by creating a new account

**Contact form:** 
The Contact page includes a form which submits messages from users directly to the site owner.

**Add item(s) to bag:**
This button allows users to add items to the bag without navigating away from the page they are on. 

**Select item quantity:**
On the product details page, users can select the number of items of that product
they want to add to their basked using the + and – buttons, then ‘Add to Bag’

**Update item(s) Quantity:**
On the bag page, users can update the number of items they wish to order of a product by
changing the quantity number using the + and – buttons, then click the ‘update’ button

**Delete item(s) from the bag:**
Users can remove an item from the bag completely by clicking the ‘remove’ button beneath the item in their bag.

**Back to the top on selected mobile pages:**
Due to the small screen of the mobile devices, the website can become long to scroll up.
This will help the users to be taken straight to the top of the site with a click of the 'back to top' arrow

**Rate the cakes:**
Registered users can rate the cakes from 0 to 5 by using the scroll down and clicking submit.

**Leave a review:**
Registered users can leave a short review of the cakes.

**Delete product (superuser only):**
Superusers can delete products easily either by clicking the delete button found
under the items on the Shop page or the individual product page.

**Update product (superuser only):**
Superusers can update the details of a product easily either by clicking the delete button
found under the items on the Shop page, or on the individual product page, and then amending the form.

---

## 7. Future Goals <a name="Future"></a>

---

## 8. Technology Used <a name="Technology"></a>

* HTML & CSS programming languages
* [Bootstrap](https://getbootstrap.com/) - to easily adapt the website to be responsive for all users. Version 4.4.1
* [Google Fonts](https://fonts.google.com/) – Dancing Script and Montserrat Styles
* [Font Awesome](https://fontawesome.com/) - Social Media Logos version 5.0.0
* [GIT](https://git-scm.com/) - Version Control
* [GitHub](https://github.com/) - to host the repositories for this project and the live website preview
* [Balsamiq Wireframe](https://balsamiq.com/) - to create the Wireframes Mockups
* [Autoprefixer](https://autoprefixer.github.io/) - to parses your CSS and adds vendor prefixes

---

## 9. Testing <a name="Testing"></a>

### Code Validation

- Python - All code was run through [PEP8](http://pep8online.com/) and the [SolarLint](https://www.sonarlint.org/) plugin for VSCode was used. All code is PEP8 compliant.

- HTML - All code was run through the [W3C HTML Validator](https://validator.w3.org/) to ensure it was valid code and no errors were made.
 
- CSS - All styling was run through the [W3C CSS Validator](https://jigsaw.w3.org/css-validator/) to ensure it was valid and no errors were made.

- jQuery - All my script was run through the [JSHint](https://jshint.com/) validator and no errors were found.


### Manual Testing

You can view the testing done in the [test.md](https://github.com/Dhracko/bakers_cake/blob/master/static/readme_docs/test.md)

### Issues and resolutions <a name="Issues"></a>
 
---

## 10. Deployment <a name="Deployment"></a>
Initial Deployment:
* @ Github

    - Git init ←- to initialize the repository if have not done so yet
    - Git add . 
    - Git commit - m “Initial deployment”

* @ Heroku website
    - Create app in Heroku
        - Click on “New” button on top right corner
        - From the scroll down select “Create new app”
        -Introduce the app-name ←- bakers_cake
        -Select Europe on the “Choose a region” scroll down
        -Click “Create app”
* @ Github
    - $ heroku login -i
    - Email & Password

    - Create requirements.txt :
        - $ pip3 freeze --local > requirements.txt
    - Create Procfile:
        - $ echo web: python app.py > Procfile

    - Initialize the git repository in a new or existing directory
        - $ git init
    - Deploy the application:
        - $ git add .
        - $ git commit -m “Initial deployment”
* @ Heroku Settings Tab
    - Copy the Heroku git URL link
    - Push the application into Heroku:
        - $ git remote add heroku https://git.heroku.com/bakers_cake.git
        - $ git push -u heroku master
    - Set Heroku IP , PORT & env.py environment variables:
    - Click on Settings 
    - Click on “Reveal Config Vars”
    - Key :  IP
    - VALUE: 0.0.0.0
    - Click Add
    - Key: PORT
    - VALUE: 5000
    - Key : MOMGO_URI
    - VALUE : (copy link from env.py)
    - Click on “Hide Config Vars”


---

## 11. Credits <a name="Credits"></a>
<a name="Content"></a>
### Content


## 12. Acknowledgements <a name="Acknowledgements"></a>
* I would like to thank Rohit Sharma (my mentor) for his invaluable feedback, help and advice.
* To the Tutor Stephen & Alan at Code Institute for showing the patient when I've got stuck with some code.
* I would like to thank to [Tony Teaches Tech](https://www.youtube.com/channel/UCWPJwoVXJhv0-ucr3pUs1dA) and his video 
[How to Pass Values Between HTML Pages Using Django Forms](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=vmP1r6xiJog&t=442s) which helped me to understand django and html relations.


## 13. Disclaimer <a name="Disclaimer"></a>
Please note the content and images on this website are for educational purposes only.

Commit message:

Added automated testing to product, contact & checkout

README.md, after:

![Multi Device Image](https://github.com/Dhracko/bakers_cake/blob/master/static/readme_docs/multi_device.png)

# Bakers Cake

---
My Milestone 4 project 'Bakers Cake' has been built using all my knowledge gained from the Code Institute Academy, Full Stack Developer Course, from start to finish.

Bakers Cake is a fully responsive, custom-built full-stack website, designed and built with the users wants and needs first, whilst maintaining a high design standard and ease of use.

You can view the live website here. [Bakers Cake](#)

# Table of Content

1. [Aim of the site](#Aim)
2. [UX](#UX)
3. [Users Stories](#Users)
4. [Design Choices](#Design)
    * [Fonts](#Fonts)
    * [Colours](#Colours)
5. [Wireframes](#Wireframes) 
6. [Features](#Features)
7. [Future Goals](#Future)
8. [Technology Used](#Technology)
9. [Testing](#Testing)
	* [Issues and resolutions](#Issues)
10. [Deployment](#Deployment)
11. [Credits](#Credits)
    * [Content](#Content)
12. [Acknowledgements](#Acknowledgements)
13. [Disclaimer](#Disclaimer)

---

## 1. Aim of the site <a name="Aim"></a>

The Client has a small business where they bake cakes for local clients and now, they are ready to take it a step further and
expand the business to an online retail system where they can sell the cake to online customers anywhere within the UK and Channel Islands.

All the cakes are homemade and bake to order only using natural high quality ingredients with no artificial preservatives.

There is a repertoire of cakes and cake samples from previous orders for the users choose from and get ideas for their needs and a form where the users
can contact the shop owner to request a specific cake.

Due to the nature of the cakes baked fresh, the client will only dispatch to the UK and Channel Islands. All the cakes will be sent on a priority 
shipping, next day delivery.

---
## 2. UX <a name="UX"></a>

As the company is a small local based and the existing client base is small.
The main aim is to expand the company with shoppers and users with the following criteria:

1. Based within the UK & Channel Islands.
2. Are looking for home bake style cakes.
3. They want a choice of which type of cake is made of.
4. Likes to leave feedback from their experience and cake purchase.

To help this business to stand out from other online, the website needs to ensure that:
* Is easy to use and navigate
* Don't overload the user with too many 'walls of text'.
* Reminds the user to leave feedback from their product purchase to help other users.
* Is easy to track down the previous orders purchased.
* A rating system for users to rate cakes.
* Reviews left by other users who purchase the cakes before.

---
## 3. User Stories <a name="Users"></a>

User Stories were created using a spreadsheet for easier tracking on development and better description.

The Users Stories can be found [here](https://github.com/Dhracko/bakers_cake/blob/master/static/readme_docs/user_stories.pdf)

---

## 4. Design Choices <a name="Design"></a>

### Fonts <a name="Fonts"></a>

* [Dancing Script](https://fonts.google.com/specimen/Dancing+Script) To git the titles and headers a friendly informal and spontaneous look.

* [Montserrat](https://fonts.google.com/specimen/Montserrat) For a lighter and better reading on longer texts.

### Colours <a name="Colours"></a>

* 


---

## 5. Wireframes Mockups: <a name="Wireframes"></a>
Mockups of the website was made using [Balsamiq Wireframe](https://balsamiq.com/) to see how it would look for the different platforms like on large screens such as desktops and 
 on small screens such as a mobile phone:

* [Desktop](https://github.com/Dhracko/bakers_cake/blob/master/static/readme_docs/desktop.png)

* [Tablet](https://github.com/Dhracko/bakers_cake/blob/master/static/readme_docs/tablet.png)

* [Mobile](https://github.com/Dhracko/bakers_cake/blob/master/static/readme_docs/mobile.png)
 
---

---

## 6. Features <a name="Features"></a>

**Navigation Bar:** 

**Sign up/Register & Sign In**
This is found under the My Account menu item where users can log in to their account or register for the site by creating a new account

**Contact form:** 
The Contact page includes a form which submits messages from users directly to the site owner.

**Add item(s) to bag:**
This button allows users to add items to the bag without navigating away from the page they are on. 

**Select item quantity:**
On the product details page, users can select the number of items of that product
they want to add to their basked using the + and – buttons, then ‘Add to Bag’

**Update item(s) Quantity:**
On the bag page, users can update the number of items they wish to order of a product by
changing the quantity number using the + and – buttons, then click the ‘update’ button

**Delete item(s) from the bag:**
Users can remove an item from the bag completely by clicking the ‘remove’ button beneath the item in their bag.

**Back to the top on selected mobile pages:**
Due to the small screen of the mobile devices, the website can become long to scroll up.
This will help the users to be taken straight to the top of the site with a click of the 'back to top' arrow

**Rate the cakes:**
Registered users can rate the cakes from 0 to 5 by using the scroll down and clicking submit.

**Leave a review:**
Registered users can leave a short review of the cakes.

**Delete product (superuser only):**
Superusers can delete products easily either by clicking the delete button found
under the items on the Shop page or the individual product page.

**Update product (superuser only):**
Superusers can update the details of a product easily either by clicking the delete button
found under the items on the Shop page, or on the individual product page, and then amending the form.

---

## 7. Future Goals <a name="Future"></a>

---

## 8. Technology Used <a name="Technology"></a>

* HTML & CSS programming languages
* [Bootstrap](https://getbootstrap.com/) - to easily adapt the website to be responsive for all users. Version 4.4.1
* [Google Fonts](https://fonts.google.com/) – Dancing Script and Montserrat Styles
* [Font Awesome](https://fontawesome.com/) - Social Media Logos version 5.0.0
* [GIT](https://git-scm.com/) - Version Control
* [GitHub](https://github.com/) - to host the repositories for this project and the live website preview
* [Balsamiq Wireframe](https://balsamiq.com/) - to create the Wireframes Mockups
* [Autoprefixer](https://autoprefixer.github.io/) - to parses your CSS and adds vendor prefixes

---

## 9. Testing <a name="Testing"></a>

### Code Validation

- Python - All code was run through [PEP8](http://pep8online.com/) and the [SolarLint](https://www.sonarlint.org/) plugin for VSCode was used. All code is PEP8 compliant.

- HTML - All code was run through the [W3C HTML Validator](https://validator.w3.org/) to ensure it was valid code and no errors were made.
 
- CSS - All styling was run through the [W3C CSS Validator](https://jigsaw.w3.org/css-validator/) to ensure it was valid and no errors were made.

- jQuery - All my script was run through the [JSHint](https://jshint.com/) validator and no errors were found.


### Manual Testing

You can view the testing done in the [test.md](https://github.com/Dhracko/bakers_cake/blob/master/static/readme_docs/test.md)

### Issues and resolutions <a name="Issues"></a>
 
--- During the automated testing, i realised I set the postcode input value to "blank=True" but it's necesary for the card payment, to I changed to "False".

## 10. Deployment <a name="Deployment"></a>
Initial Deployment:
* @ Github

    - Git init ←- to initialize the repository if have not done so yet
    - Git add . 
    - Git commit - m “Initial deployment”

* @ Heroku website
    - Create app in Heroku
        - Click on “New” button on top right corner
        - From the scroll down select “Create new app”
        -Introduce the app-name ←- bakers_cake
        -Select Europe on the “Choose a region” scroll down
        -Click “Create app”
* @ Github
    - $ heroku login -i
    - Email & Password

    - Create requirements.txt :
        - $ pip3 freeze --local > requirements.txt
    - Create Procfile:
        - $ echo web: python app.py > Procfile

    - Initialize the git repository in a new or existing directory
        - $ git init
    - Deploy the application:
        - $ git add .
        - $ git commit -m “Initial deployment”
* @ Heroku Settings Tab
    - Copy the Heroku git URL link
    - Push the application into Heroku:
        - $ git remote add heroku https://git.heroku.com/bakers_cake.git
        - $ git push -u heroku master
    - Set Heroku IP , PORT & env.py environment variables:
    - Click on Settings 
    - Click on “Reveal Config Vars”
    - Key :  IP
    - VALUE: 0.0.0.0
    - Click Add
    - Key: PORT
    - VALUE: 5000
    - Key : MOMGO_URI
    - VALUE : (copy link from env.py)
    - Click on “Hide Config Vars”


---

## 11. Credits <a name="Credits"></a>
<a name="Content"></a>
### Content


## 12. Acknowledgements <a name="Acknowledgements"></a>
* I would like to thank Rohit Sharma (my mentor) for his invaluable feedback, help and advice.
* To the Tutor Stephen & Alan at Code Institute for showing the patient when I've got stuck with some code.
* I would like to thank to [Tony Teaches Tech](https://www.youtube.com/channel/UCWPJwoVXJhv0-ucr3pUs1dA) and his video 
[How to Pass Values Between HTML Pages Using Django Forms](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=vmP1r6xiJog&t=442s) which helped me to understand django and html relations.


## 13. Disclaimer <a name="Disclaimer"></a>
Please note the content and images on this website are for educational purposes only.
